Web Share.
The previous ones were more special, but
WebShare I think is interesting for
all of you.
With Web Share,
we can call navigator.jr, pass a JSON,
an object, with title, text,
URL, and optional files.
And it can trigger the native share
dialog of the operating system.
So then you can share content
from your website to other apps,
social networks, mail applications,
WhatsApp, message, PDF, reader, whatever.
Makes sense?
So then you can have in your own website,
in cooking, masters,
on every recipe we can have a share button
that can share this recipe with your
friend and you can open the native dialog.
So then you as web developer,
you don't know where the user
is going to share that.
So you are sharing data and
it's out of your scope now.
So this is the web share API on Android.
You click share,
it appears the complete native dialog.
So you can share it outside iOS,
not Android.
You can share that with
all the possible apps.
And then the app will receive
that share operation, okay?
Simple to understand, it's a simple API.
Something that is even more
powerful is Web Share Target.
This one is light green,
it's Chromium only.
Web Share, it works also On iOS.
In this case,
you don't wanna share to the rest.
You wanna receive shares
from other apps or websites.
So you wanna be target
of a share operation.
So you wanna be on the list.
You want your PWA to be on the list of
possible apps that can receive data.
In this case,
we add that intention in the web manifest.
It's another entry in the web manifest,
where you will express, okay,
you want to share and when that happens.
You want your PWA to execute that URL and
receive using GET or POST these arguments.
But then we JavaScript you can read and
share that in your system in your app.
Yep.
>> Can you share a file?
>> You can share a file.
So the Web Share API has an option
of files array available.
In fact that optional files array is
the second version of the Web Share spec.
That is currently available
in every browser anyway.
So you can share files.
Yeah, and also you can receive files
if you're implementing WebShare target.
So you can receive text only, or images,
or PDF, or recipes, wherever you define.